I'm sharing The Ultimate Guide to B2B
SEO
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails right here actual Beauty
marketing SEO and website tips useful
podcasts free goodies and more why not
give it a shot over at businessgrowth
dot email in this Ultimate Guide to B2B
SEO you're going to learn everything
from initial keyword research right
through to off-page SEO link building
website optimization and much much more
so you can position your B2B company top
of organic search results in your
industry not only that but you can
seriously scale the organic traffic to
your website making organic SEO search
engine optimization a top Revenue driver
and inbound lead provider for your
business let's dive in but first what
are some of the common problems I see
with B2B companies well a lot of B2B
organizations are becoming reliant on
referrals meaning that some months
business leads sales are great other
months when referrals dry up it's a lot
tougher leads to slower sales are slower
growing the business is much more
difficult perhaps they go super hard on
outbound sales so sdrs or bdrs hitting
the phones hitting cold prospects like
email or maybe they invest a ton of cash
into advertisement maybe it's LinkedIn
ads social ads or elsewhere meaning that
those businesses are neglecting to
capture High intent prospects who need
your solution today looking on Google
organic search or perhaps their website
is thin on contents they've just got a
few pages at home about us book a call
get a quote get a demo meaning that the
site's not ranking well because it's
thin on content it does doesn't have
information on the key offerings you
provide it doesn't go into detail giving
your site an opportunity to rank or
perhaps a technical SEO on the site is
poor as well maybe that under pressure
from investors to hit short-term targets
thus delaying things like SEO that can
be a medium to long term gain in terms
of organic traffic rankings and leads or
perhaps finally leadership just doesn't
understand how SEO works or see the
value in it yet so it needs to be
educated all of which will go through in
today's episode so why the heck should
you invest in SEO well the beauty of SEO
is it can create an evergreen ecosystem
generating inbound leads opportunities
for your sales team Around the Clock not
just now but for many years to come
through ranking well on organic search
and not only can It attract High intent
prospects that need your offer your
solution today but it can build trust
with prospects that are perhaps looking
for questions trying to fix problems or
looking for more information around your
Niche around your industry thus
positioning your brand positioning your
website positioning your company as the
go-to in your sector but not only that a
lot of prospects put a lot more trust in
companies in brands that consistently
show up well in organic search as they
know the Google ads are paid for and
they know that's a paid for position and
finally over time organic SEO search
engine optimization can lower your ad
spend as if you're scaling up your
website's organic traffic and if inbound
leads inbound calls inbound consult
requests for your B2B company are
scaling up it means you might be able to
lower your ad spend as organic traffic
surpasses pay traffic so what do you
need before you invest in SEO well
before you invest in SEO you're going to
need a solid website but not just any
website you're going to need to follow
best practice is so making sure the
website loads quickly within two seconds
or so making sure it works seamlessly on
mobile tablet and PC making sure it has
an attractive engaging design that's
actually built for your idle clients in
terms of the messaging in terms of the
main pages in terms of the structure and
that the website is built to be your
very best sales rep as let's face it
websites are Live 24 7 unlike any sales
professional they're constantly there
and on the basis that you market and
advertise them right they can be either
working hard to drive inbound and drive
leads for your business or if you do
them poorly then are going to put out a
bad reflection on your brand and even
cost you business so ultimately your
website needs to attract engage it needs
to build trust with educate and qualify
ideal clients into a steady flow of
inbound demo requests or sells leads I
actually put out a podcast and a YouTube
episode recently on the seven must-have
B2B website pages so if you want more
advice on how to make your website your
best sales rep before you invest in SEO
then check out that podcast episode or
that YouTube episode to get a bunch of
tips of building your website to
converters still unsure if SEO is a good
fit for you well the truth is it might
not be the best fit if you're a brand
new category or you're a brand new
sector or brand new Niche meaning that
people aren't aware of the problem you
solve or the solution that you provide
then SEO might not be the best fit
because that means prospects because
they're not aware of the offer or the
problem you're fixing they're not
actually searching for your Solution on
Google so you might be better placed to
educate them Market I.E creating content
that provides details on the problem you
solve and the solution that you address
to fix those problems so you might be
better creating content on the channels
your ideal clients hang out on whether
that's B2B so LinkedIn maybe podcast
Maybe YouTube maybe elsewhere however
the chances are you are in a category
that's established I.E people know about
your sector they know about your
solution they know that there's a
solution available for the problem that
you fix so in which case SEO is going to
be a good use of your time you should go
into SEO with a medium to long-term
mindset meaning that it's not going to
be click your fingers done but over time
it's going to create your website as the
go-to for your industry it's going to
build up your brand reputation ramp up
that organic traffic and ramp up that
organic inbound so let's dive into the
Tactical tips everything I share in this
walkthrough is Battle tested meaning
we've put it into play for our own
company
webchoiceuk.com on our own Pages where
we've outranked huge Brands like webflow
Salesforce semrush some of our greatest
achievements for our own rankings
include page one rankings for the
keyword web development company B2B SAS
SEO B2B SAS web development and a bunch
of others which rank super well in UK EU
and some other countries I'm going to be
covering keyword research so how to
identify the right Search terms to
Target for your site to attract those
High intent prospects that need your
offering both today and for ones that
are higher up the funnel perhaps looking
to learn more about your Niche or your
industry we're going to talk about
on-page SEO from a Content perspective
and from a technical web development
perspective I'm going to be talking
about off-page SEO so content
distribution building citations building
juicy backlinks and we're going to share
some free ways and some paid ways to
build quality links to your site and
then finally we'll have a Roundup to
cover everything off let's jump into
this
so we'll start playing with keyword
research so it's time to ditch and scrap
everything you know about keyword
research for SEO yes you still need to
use the common tools but you shouldn't
solely rely on them in fact your
prospects your Target customers are one
of the best sources when it comes to
actually understanding what your target
market is searching for when they need
your offer when they have problems
around your solution when they have
frustrations when they want their
questions answered it's best to get this
info straight from the horse's mouth
instead of the ones that are actually
going to be looking for your offer
looking to fix a problem or improve
their business or life so a great
starting point here is to get with your
sales team
perhaps have some coffees some beers
some drinks have lunch together whatever
you want to do and make thrash out an
entire list of all the common questions
that you get on sales calls all the
common objections and anything in
between do an entire list with your team
of every question that you get every
objection you get around your offer from
around your services around your pricing
around the features around integration
around support everything you can think
of the reason we're doing this is to
know what our prospects actually have
demand for to get answered what they
might be searching for what are the most
common things that are brought up so we
know that they're going to be consistent
there's going to be a lot of demand for
them in Google search and what are the
actual words that are prospects our
customers use to describe our offer so
rather than guessing we're literally
using the words that our customers use
regularly to us and you can get this
information from your sales team you can
also listen in to sales calls with tools
like gong and you can sit in on customer
success calls to get all this valuable
information and fresh out your
comprehensive list and once you've got
that comprehensive list the reason that
we've built that out is so we can seed
out long tail keyword opportunities and
when you're building out the content for
your information service product pages
feature Pages support Pages demo pages
and more we're handling the relevant
objections to each offer and we can put
in an FAQ section on each relevant page
where we can address those objections
address those questions and basically do
a salesperson's job and not only that
we're creating content that's got real
demand that's actually searchable thus
is going to rank better on Google so
then we want to jump into more
traditional keyword research this is
where you can use tools like semrush
hrefs ubersuggest Google Keyword Planner
there's many others on the market and if
you're looking for a free tool check out
hrefs webmaster tools so to start with
you want to start with bottom of the
sales funnel keyword opportunities
thus people very likely to want to get a
demo or speak to sales today so if
you're in a sales space you might be
looking let's say SAS sales you might be
looking at sales enablement software
sales proposal tools
sales proposal service those kind of
things might be relevant to your offer
meaning if someone types them in they're
probably looking to get a demo today you
want to go Niche you want to go specific
and you want to be as focused in on your
target market as possible so when I say
Niche long tail and specific let's say
you provide CRM Services rather than
just going after CRM which is going to
be a massively competitive term
let's say one of your target markets is
small businesses you might say CRM for
small business let's say another Market
is accountancy you might go best CRM for
accountants let's say another is
Tradesmen best CRM for Tradesmen or CRM
for trades companies Etc you get the
idea of going Niche we're going into our
Target markets we're also attracting the
ideal fit clients that we want to
actually get demo requests or inbound
leads from so think about all those
Target markets to understand what
they're searching for then use the SEO
tools and software to give you a good
idea of the amount of traffic that they
get and understand that traffic isn't
the be all and endl as some Search terms
could have really low traffic but could
be super high intense when your
prospects search for it they actually
want to speak to sales today but the
good thing about SEO tools is they can
give you competitor research you can
check out what your competitors ranking
for to give you some ideas and they can
also give you a rough idea of the
difficulty of different Search terms and
some other ideas for your keyword
research are problem-based searches so
in our case that might be how to reduce
website bounce rate how to reduce the
churn rate that could be how to improve
conversion rate on my website how to
rank higher on Google
how to invest in SEO how long does SEO
take what's the typical time frames all
these kind of common problems and
addressing those another could be
comparisons so your company name versus
a common competitor and the beauty of
this is you can build out competitive
pages so it really helps convert
prospects that are evaluating you versus
another vendor another idea is question
searches how to do X best way to do why
how to improve Zed covering each stage
of the sales process the sales funnel
from initial problems that we talked
about to evaluation to directly
searching for the solution the high
intent Search terms we talked about
earlier and finally going for zero
traffic searches
so if you know that there's a specific
feature a specific service a specific
industry that you want to Target the
search term and you know there's demand
for it because you get commonly asked at
your sales team do rather and perhaps
these keywords are showing up as zero
traffic on the common SEO tools or
software but you know there's demand for
it why not go for it because you've got
to remember a lot of the common SEO
tools are working off historical data so
they might show zero traffic now but the
truth is these keywords are actually
driving traffic so if you can build a
best-in-class website page that ranks
you can soak up you can enjoy all those
leads because none of your competitors
are going for them so bear in mind zero
traffic keywords can actually be a gold
mine next up we've got on-page SEO and
on-page SEO is typically split into two
sections you've got technical SEO so how
your website is technically built and
then you've got the content side of the
things how the content is put together
and structured so let's dive into the
technical SEO side of things and what
that entails first so technical SEO will
typically start with an audit of your
website and it will cover a whole bunch
of things typically involving things
like page speed so you want to make sure
your website loads nice and quick on
mobile tablet and desktop you can use a
tool like Google page feed insight to
check your page speed and you can get
actual tips to improve it a few common
suspects for a slow site are things like
heavy images if the image files are too
large it could be you've got a ton of
plugins on your WordPress site maybe
your platform's out of date maybe you've
got a bunch of videos and you want to
actually make those images that when you
click them they load the video those are
some common suspects but make sure you
check out your page speed on a tool like
page speed insights or GTM metrics and
understand where it's at now try to get
it to two seconds or less so you don't
have tons of people bouncing off your
site and negatively impacting SEO so you
want to set up SEO data tools like
Google analytics so you can track the
traffic your website's getting you can
track conversion rates so you can set up
conversion points for click to calls
when someone fills out forms when they
book a demo when they click your email
and various other things like how long
people stay on the website for key Pages
they visit all your traffic sources from
organic search from Paid search referral
socials and more you can also look at
tools like hotjar so you can see
recordings of heat Maps or where people
are clicking on your site but also
session recordings how people interact
on your site to give you an idea to
improve your conversion rate you want to
set up Google my business and Google
search console to help with your SEO and
recording too you want to assess your
competitors so see what keywords your
competitors are targeting how well
they're ranking any gaps or any areas
that you can improve upon you want to
sort out your metadata so your meta
titles and meta descriptions so what's
actually shown in the search engine
results pages and encourage people to
click through when they see the
descriptions in those
you want to sort out your heading tags
so your page titles your H1s H2S and so
on so how your page is structured and
how Google's going to pick up your
content you want to build out landing
pages so for each of these main keywords
that we're gonna look to rank we want a
relevant dedicated page so Google's
actually going to serve up prospects
content that's relevant to their search
query give them the best answers
possible you want to look at other
things so keyword cannibalization I.E
when several Pages might be ranking for
the same search term you want to pick
the one that's going to be the most
relevant rather than ranking for stuff
that might not actually give users what
they're searching for
and also sorting things like alt text
for images sorting title attributes
sorting core web vitals best practices
like we talked about page load speed
good solid technical SEO with all these
points that we discussed and also making
sure that your website gives visitors
the best experience possible no matter
what device they open on making sure
many navigation is easy to view both on
mobile and PC making sure it's easy for
prospects to find what they want whether
they want to book a demo whether they
want to check out your resources whether
you want to quickly see what you do how
you help them and more making sure your
website ultimately gives your end
visitors the best experience possible
from speed
right through to end conversion and when
it comes to on-page content your first
priority should be building out all the
pages that high intent prospects might
be searching for relevant to your
services your features the industry or
the Persona that they're in so I'm going
to go through our B2B SEO for SAS page
in a second it's also worth bearing in
mind that this should be the first Focus
because it can capture High intent
prospects when they're searching for
that offer and that's relevant to the
industry really good for those long tail
keywords we talked about earlier and
once you've built out all those pages
then you can look at higher up the
funnel so building out article pages to
address problems or questions or more
that your customers might have and
recently at the time of recording Google
recently rolled out the eeat framework
so that stands for experience expertise
Authority and Trust so you want to make
sure that your website demonstrates
hands-on experience as well as all those
other factors so if I take a look at our
B2B SEO for SAS
page some of the basics that you want to
think about is straight away giving
prospects the answer they're searching
for so give them a quick overview of the
topic that they've actually searched for
having a call to action above the fold
so if they do want to speak to sales
you've got a call to action to click
through to get a demo we then like to
put in some social proof
so this is a long form page we've then
got some sliding testimonials then we're
talking about the topic in a bit more
details in our case what is B2B SEO for
SAS or does it Intel then we've got a
video walkthrough of how you can win
with B2B SEO for SAS
then we talk about how it works so what
is the process how do we get results
what's involved does your business
actually need it so talking about if
it's relevant for the Prospect and the
user why they should pick you why they
should pick your company to help them
with the solution
then we talk about the process in detail
so in our case analyzing everything from
technical seo off-page seo content link
building giving them the full scope of
work so they can understand what's
entailed a bit more about why they
should choose us and the approach that's
involved and then right down to the
bottom we've got FAQs and this is
actually taken from the list that you
had made earlier with your common
questions that's relevant to this page
so we're talking about things like how
long does it take how much might it cost
what should you do before you invest
isn't it faster to invest in Google ads
and SEO so we're literally bringing up
the objections that your prospects might
have addressing those directly removing
by anxiety and making them more more
likely to trust your brand and then
we've got another call to action at the
bottom some Brands we work with
to finish off so that's not a bad
structure in terms of making sure you
address Google's eeat framework making
sure you give prospects the answers
they're searching for handle their
problems give them the benefits that you
provide answer their questions give them
clear social proof to build that trust
and then guide them to take action with
that request to quit or whatever is
relevant maybe request a demo book or
call whatever's relevant to your offer
in fact this is the framework that we've
built out on our own pages so we
recently put out a page for B2B SAS web
development at webchoice and that's
actually now out ranking Salesforce and
outranking webflow for that Target
keyword UK EU
give that a shot when you're building
out your website content for those key
pages that you want to get ranking and
once you've nailed your on-page SEO you
want to look at off-page SEO so this is
everything you do off your website from
content distribution to listings to
building backlinks and more off-page SEO
is going to be especially important when
you want to get competitive and more
generic Search terms ranking so one of
the best ways to do this is by building
quality backlinks Google Sees backlinks
as a trust building factor for your site
they can build up your website's domain
Authority and get those difficult to
rank Pages up in the organic search
results there's a few free ways that you
can use to build up your backlinks so
the first is actually guesting on
industry relevant podcasts you can use a
site like chartable where you can search
for your Niche or your industry you can
find the top ranking podcasts you can
then Prospect and get in touch with the
hosts of the podcast on tools like
LinkedIn or via called email ask them to
go on the show give them a compelling
pitch of the problems you can talk about
and the benefits you can bring to the
show and then if you get on those top
ranked podcasts in your industry once
you've recorded a useful session you can
ask on the page that they put out on
their podcast website on the article
page to give a backlink back to your
site so that's one way you can also
partner
with complementary companies so let's
say in our space at web Choice maybe
we'll pick out analytic softwares or CRM
softwares they don't directly compete
with us but they offer a complimentary
service we could create some content
together maybe a podcast maybe a video
and then we'd also create some article
pages on each other's websites and then
put a back link to each other's sites
you can also use help or reporter out
h-a-r-o this is a great platform where
you can actually submit to request or
put out a article on journalism sites so
you can look at the available pitches
where journalists need help putting
together content you can put together a
piece and if they actually approve your
article you can get a really strong
backlink from a journalist a news based
or article site it can be quite tricky
but can pay off massively if you get a
really high Authority link back to your
site another way is pitching guest
article sites so any sites that allow
guest based links or guest based
articles you can pitch those that are
relevant in your Niche or your industry
or the last three ways to actually
create content that's just so good that
it's just so well ranked so
comprehensive answers all your common
prospects questions problems is a super
useful resource from A to Z and it's so
useful that people just rank to it
naturally because it's so hard hitting
and it's one of the best in the industry
and then some paid ways to build up
backlinks are actually purchasing
editorial links to where you put out a
great article and have a link back to
your site yes paid is done many times in
the SEO industry just be careful that
you're not going to spammy sites that
put out thousands of links and that
could give you a negative impact it
could even cause your website to be as
bad as blacklisted on Google which is
possible or it could have just a really
poor impact on your rankings pushing you
down in the search results or you can go
to an agency or an SEO consultancy or a
company like web choice to manage the
full SEO process for you from on page to
off page to link building and another
way to build up your off-page SEO is
through citations or directory listings
where you find out directories that are
relevant to your Niche to your industry
and you put up your business listings
your company name address details and
you can also get a decent link back to
your site so to summarize as long as
you're not on a category that's brand
new and you're in a sector that's
somewhat established and you've got
people out there that are aware there is
a solution for the offer that you
provide then SEO is going to be a safe
bet meaning that you can capture those
High intent leads that are searching
directly for your solution or maybe
searching for a problem that you fix
needing help with it right here right
now get those flowing through your
website by ranking top of organic search
with SEO plus you can attract prospects
higher up the funnel looking for
questions looking for answers or
comparing options around your offer to
nurture them over time but like I said
earlier SEO is a great way to build
brand reputation if you're doing things
like outbound sales perhaps running
demand generation campaigns running
different types of ads or more
traditional marketing then SEO can build
on that trust build on that reputation
if prospects are constantly seeing you
top of organic search results around
your industry for questions problems
around your Niche it's going to build
trust and position you and your brand
your company your website as the go-to
in your industry thus building up your
industry reputation and driving that
steady flow of organic inbound so if you
need help with your organic SEO strategy
for your B2B company then do get in
touch with us over at web voice uk.com
hope you found this guide of use if you
did a quick subscribe on YouTube
appreciated or a rating or review or on
Apple or Spotify goes a long way and
with that I'll catch you on the next one
cheers